Data Warehouse
A data warehouse is a system that includes processes and technologies, and data representations that enable us to support analytical processes.
A data warehouse is a copy of transaction data specifically structured for query and analysis (Kimball). A data warehouse
is a subject-oriented, integrated, nonvolatile, and time-variant collection of data in support of management's decision (Inmon).
A data warehouse retrieves and consolidates data periodically from source systems into a dimensional or normalized data store.
It is usually updated in batches, not every time a transaction happens in the source system.

Business needs for data analytics.
When there are different sources of data for organizational needs. Analyzing these data for BI needs, visualization, analytics,
Data warehouses are solutions built to support an organization's data analytics needs.
Take, for example, there is a retailer data infrastructure need to support (a) customers' ability to purchase goods, (b) delivery
staff fulfilling orders and updating an inventory, (c) inventory staff stocking, retrieving, and re-ordering goods, and (d)
customers' needs to find goods and make others.

These supports integrate the scope of both OLTP and OLAP. Therefore, specifically designed databases might be sufficient to
cater to the transaction processing needs; however, a data warehouse that aggregates all the data in the databases must be
designed to take care of analytical needs.


How the needs translate to data warehouses - Data warehouse design
- Dimensional modeling
Though 3NF provides a data integrity advantage, it has lots of expensive JOINS that are hard to explain to business users.
Star Schema as a dimensional model, for example, is easy to understand and provides fast analytical query performance.
Fact tables columns record events in quantifiable metrics. Dimensions record the context of the events, like the store where
an item is purchased.  

- ETL processes for data warehousing (Extract from the data sources, Transform (can include cleansing, generating metadata to dimensional modeling, and Load into DW)

Data warehouse architecture
- Kimball's architecture and its components
According to Kimball's Bus Architecture, data is kept in a common dimension data model shared across different departments. 
It does not allow for individual department-specific data modeling requirements. The same data dimension is used by different
business processes.

- Processes of each data warehouse component

- Storage architecture components for optimization


OLAP cubes
- OLAP cubes as a tool for dimensional analysis
Once the facts and dimension tables are completed, then, OLAP cubes will be used for analytical processing.
OLAP cubes are queries that return multiple dimensions from the fact dimensional datasets. It is easy to communicate. 

Fact
Metric
Month or period. By combining more than one dimension, you can perform Roll up (grouping data by one dimension - aggregates 
or combines values and reduces the number of rows or columns). 
For example,
sum up the sales of each city by country.
or Drill down (decomposes values and increases the number of rows or columns) 
slice and dice (produces smaller sub-cube - same dimensions, but restricting values of some dimensions) operations.
The OLAP slice operation reduces N dimensions to N-1 by restricting one dimension to a single value.
